Retire Cilium-Integrated Istio documentation (#25722)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/servicemesh/istio.rst

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _gsg_istio:

***********************
Integration with Istio
***********************

> While a lot of service mesh functionality can be implemented natively by Cilium, 
> Istio still remains a popular service mesh implementation and this page is designed 
> to help you get started using Istio with a Cilium-enabled Kubernetes cluster.
> This document covers the following common aspects of Cilium's integration with Istio:

Reviewer: Use clear, plain language
```suggestion
This page helps you get started using Istio with a Cilium-enabled Kubernetes cluster.
This document covers the following common aspects of Cilium's integration with Istio:
```

* Cilium configuration
* Istio configuration
* Demo application

Cilium Configuration
====================

The main goal of Cilium configuration is to ensure that traffic redirected to
Istio's `sidecar proxies <https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/>`_ is not disrupted.

> This can happen when you enable Cilium's ``kubeProxyReplacement`` feature  (see :ref:`kubeproxy-free` docs), 
> which enables socket-based load-balancing inside a Pod.

Reviewer: Specific is better than general, no hyphens needed
```suggestion
Disruptions can happen when you enable Cilium's ``kubeProxyReplacement`` feature  (see :ref:`kubeproxy-free` docs), 
which enables socket based load balancing inside a Pod.
```

Reviewer: Good use of "you" to address the user ✨

> In order to ensure that Cilium does not interfere with Istio, it must be deployed
> using the ``--config bpf-lb-sock-hostns-only=true`` cilium CLI flag or with the ``socketLB.hostNamespaceOnly`` Helm value.
> You can confirm the resulting setting using the following command:

Reviewer: Use clear, plain language, specific is better than general
```suggestion
To ensure that Cilium does not interfere with Istio, Cilium must be deployed
with the ``--config bpf-lb-sock-hostns-only=true`` cilium CLI flag or with the ``socketLB.hostNamespaceOnly`` Helm value.
You can confirm the result with the following command:
```

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ kubectl get configmaps -n kube-system cilium-config -oyaml | grep bpf-lb-sock-hostns
    bpf-lb-sock-hostns-only: "true"

.. _gsg_istio_cnp:

Istio configuration
===============================

> When you deploy Istio there are a few things you need to be aware of:

Reviewer: Comma nit, use clear, plain language
```suggestion
When you deploy Istio, be aware of:
```

> * The new experimental `Ambient mesh <https://istio.io/latest/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/>`_ 

Reviewer: cap nit
```suggestion
* The new experimental `ambient mesh <https://istio.io/latest/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/>`_ 
```

>   data plane is not currently supported as it interferes with Cilium data plane.

Reviewer: Omit "currently"
```suggestion
  data plane is not supported, as it interferes with the Cilium data plane.
```

* mTLS mode ``STRICT`` or ``PERMISSIVE`` (default) are not compatible with Cilium HTTP network policy. 

>   If you want to use an HTTP-based network policy (e.g. :ref:`l7_policy`), 
>   you have to configure ``mtls.mode=DISABLE`` under Istio's ``PeerAuthentication``.

Reviewer: Edits for clarity, no Latin abbreviations
```suggestion
  To use an HTTP-based network policy (for example, :ref:`l7_policy`), 
  you must configure ``mtls.mode=DISABLE`` under Istio's ``PeerAuthentication``.
```

* When using Kubernetes admission webhooks to `inject sidecar proxies <https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/configuration/mesh/webhook/>`_
  together with Cilium overlay mode (VXLAN or GENEVE), ``istiod`` pods must be running with ``hostNetwork: true`` in order to be reachable 

>   by the API server.

Reviewer: Well written. ✨

Demo Application
===============================

> The purpose of the following guide is to demonstrate the interaction between Istio's ``mTLS`` mode and 
> Cilium network policies, including the caveat described in the :ref:`gsg_istio_cnp` section.

Reviewer: Use clear, plain language
```suggestion
The following guide demonstrates the interaction between Istio's ``mTLS`` mode and 
Cilium network policies, including the caveat described in the :ref:`gsg_istio_cnp` section.
```

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * Istio already installed on the local Kubernetes cluster
> * Cilium already installed with ``socketLB.hostNamespaceOnly`` Helm value
> * Istio's ``istioctl`` installed on the local host

Reviewer: Edits for clarity
```suggestion
* Istio is already installed on the local Kubernetes cluster.
* Cilium is already installed with the ``socketLB.hostNamespaceOnly`` Helm value.
* Istio's ``istioctl`` is installed on the local host.
```

Start by deploying a set of web servers and client applications across three different namespaces:

.. parsed-literal::

    kubectl create ns red
    kubectl -n red apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/httpbin.yaml)
    kubectl -n red apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/httpbin.yaml)
    kubectl -n red apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/netshoot.yaml)
    kubectl create ns blue
    kubectl -n blue apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/httpbin.yaml)
    kubectl -n blue apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/netshoot.yaml)
    kubectl create ns green
    kubectl -n green apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/netshoot.yaml

> By default, Istio works in the ``PERMISSIVE`` mode, allowing both Istio-managed and sidecar-less Pods

Reviewer: Edits for clarity
```suggestion
By default, Istio works in ``PERMISSIVE`` mode, allowing both Istio-managed and Pods without sidecars
```

to send and receive traffic between each other. You can test the connectivity between client and server applications 

> deployed above using the following commands:

Reviewer: Slightly more complex language in service of a clearer meaning
```suggestion
deployed in the preceding example by entering the following commands:
```

    kubectl exec -n blue deploy/netshoot -- curl http://httpbin.red/ip -s -o /dev/null -m 1 -w "client 'blue' to server 'red': %{http_code}\n"
    kubectl exec -n green deploy/netshoot -- curl http://httpbin.red/ip -s -o /dev/null -m 1 -w "client 'green' to server 'red': %{http_code}\n"
    kubectl exec -n red deploy/netshoot -- curl http://httpbin.blue/ip -s -o /dev/null -m 1 -w "client 'red' to server 'blue': %{http_code}\n"
    kubectl exec -n blue deploy/netshoot -- curl http://httpbin.blue/ip -s -o /dev/null -m 1 -w "client 'blue' to server 'blue': %{http_code}\n"
    kubectl exec -n green deploy/netshoot -- curl http://httpbin.blue/ip -s -o /dev/null -m 1 -w "client 'green' to server 'blue': %{http_code}\n"

All commands should complete successfully:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    client 'red' to server 'red': 200
    client 'blue' to server 'red': 200
    client 'green' to server 'red': 200
    client 'red' to server 'blue': 200
    client 'blue' to server 'blue': 200
    client 'green' to server 'blue': 200

You can apply network policies to restrict communication between namespaces. 
The following command applies an L4 network policy that restricts communication 

> in the ``blue`` namespace to only clients located in ``blue`` and ``red`` namespaces.

Reviewer: Edit for clarity
```suggestion
in the ``blue`` namespace to clients located only in ``blue`` and ``red`` namespaces.
```

.. parsed-literal::
    kubectl -n blue apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/l4-policy.yaml

Re-run the same connectivity checks to confirm the expected result:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    client 'red' to server 'red': 200
    client 'blue' to server 'red': 200
    client 'green' to server 'red': 200
    client 'red' to server 'blue': 200
    client 'blue' to server 'blue': 200
    client 'green' to server 'blue': 000
    command terminated with exit code 28

> Now you can decide to enhance the same network policy to perform additional HTTP-based checks. 
> The following command applies the L7 network policy allowing communication only with the ``/ip`` URL path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then decide to enhance the same network policy to perform additional HTTP-based checks. 
The following command applies the L7 network policy allowing communication only with the ``/ip`` URL path:
```

.. parsed-literal::
    kubectl -n blue apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/l7-policy.yaml

> At this point, all communication with the ``blue`` namespace is broken since Cilium proxy (HTTP) interferes with

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
At this point, all communication with the ``blue`` namespace is broken since the Cilium proxy (HTTP) interferes with
```

Istio's mTLS-based HTTPs connections:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    client 'red' to server 'red': 200
    client 'blue' to server 'red': 200
    client 'green' to server 'red': 200
    client 'red' to server 'blue': 503
    client 'blue' to server 'blue': 503
    client 'green' to server 'blue': 000
    command terminated with exit code 28

To solve the problem, you can disable Istio's mTLS authentication by configuring a new policy:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/kubernetes-istio/authn.yaml

> You need to apply this policy to the same namespace where you implement the HTTP-based network policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must apply this policy to the same namespace where you implement the HTTP-based network policy:
```

.. parsed-literal::
    kubectl -n blue apply -f \ |SCM_WEB|\/examples/kubernetes-istio/authn.yaml

> Re-run connectivity check to confirm that communication with the ``blue`` namespaces has been restored. 

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
Re-run a connectivity check to confirm that communication with the ``blue`` namespaces has been restored. 
```

> You can check that Cilium is enforcing the L7 network policy by accessing a different URL path, e.g. ``/deny``:

Reviewer: Late review requirement: no Latin abbreviations, clarity
```suggestion
You can verify that Cilium is enforcing the L7 network policy by accessing a different URL path, for example ``/deny``:
```

> 

Reviewer: Omit line
```suggestion
```
